Lilliana Robinson: I haven't met yet. So you guys have met George already from our intro. But we will have a second program. Associate here.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin, do you want to introduce yourself.
Kevin Kaspar: Everyone. My name's Kevin. I recently graduated from Northwestern in June. That's where I met Neil and Liliana. I've helped out with 2 tech stars programs in the past based in Chicago. So I'm excited to be out in the bay and help you guys with this one.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome. So Kevin and George are almost full time. They're not directly employed by tech stars we have with. They're more like our contractors. Every program. We have helpers like this. And Kevin and George are like, you guys have such a treat by having them because they're super hard working and knowledgeable, so definitely tap into them. For help, with not only operations and everything that they'll be working on, but also your businesses. They can provide a lot of value, and Kevin will be giving a workshop lead.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Even.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I was. Gonna say, sorry. Kevin's being modest.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't want to brag about him too heavy, but you know he is a founder himself. He has, I think, raised over half a million dollars in capital, I think. Non dilutive capital.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Because he he earned that. He just fleeced all the Mbas. And you know, as a as a 20 year old and all the business competitions and stuff which was great. And he's just an impressive guy in general, like, we're lucky to have him. And he teaches founders new things, every single program so happy to have Kevin with us.
Kevin Kaspar: I'm always happy to be here.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome, and Kevin will be sharing a lot of those tips and tricks from his pitching days. Later in week. 8, I believe.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Any any other questions or pieces of
Lilliana Robinson: business? How was the Gmp. Showcase that one is
Lilliana Robinson: everything with a black.is like anything that you go to with everybody in techstars who's currently in program. So like the welcome call tomorrow morning, you'll also see the black dot that means, like everybody, it means a global session. Did anyone have questions about the partners or anything that you heard from them in the past couple of hours?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: No questions from our side, but pretty impressed by the the amount of resources and perks, it's quite particularly aws and
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and deal like they're pretty substantial
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: discount. So yeah, we're definitely gonna check it out and hit them up.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I agree. And it goes even deeper than that, because, like outside of the credits and the actual discounts, like aws is gonna have some of their engineers come and do technical office hours with you guys for free. That's something we do. Every program. Those are the kinds of things that they do for you guys, which I think is awesome, like I love having the partners. It's extremely mutually beneficial.
Chloe Lannert: Becky from Aws is a top mentor, and you'll meet her at the happy hour next week, like she's amazing. So so happy to help across the board.
Lilliana Robinson: That's awesome. I didn't know she'd be in person. She lives in Canada. So that's a treat.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome. Okay. So let's get started with this one.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I had a final quick thing to add, Liliana, just the another boxer reminder. I think most of you just responded, and did great. So that's awesome. I'll be adding a link to each of your company base camps to the groups that I'm forming with you.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Anybody on your team. If you want them to join that group, Boxer can click that link and join it. You can also add them yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just to make that clear by default. It includes myself and Liliana.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's already, I think, one or 2 that include more than that. Like Sylvia and Chloe. You can add, whoever on the team you think would be great for that one group, or you can form separate groups or have individual chats. So you'll get familiar with the tool as you go. But I think who is it? Agent Lunar? I think I've been in touch with the most on Boxer, and I think also, Dave, from evil genius. Has it been
Neal Sáles-Griffin: helpful so far? Have you enjoyed it?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Alright, cool, good.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Definitely. I didn't realize it was a walkie talkie, so really happy about that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The the functionality is basically like you, you'll pick up on it quickly. It's like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: pretty much like a very fast way to like have a quick conversation just in a couple of minutes.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: It's all. And I think also just a quick note to any. I know Whatsapp's more popular in Europe, but I think what's most helpful for us is like business was getting commingled with our personal lives. So now we're actually just going to say to all our partners, get onto voxer, so we can keep Whatsapp for friends and family. So that's been really helpful.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it's really good to differentiate things like that. Because then you can mute one.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, okay, cool anything else about boxing now? Or do we want to move on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I've said my piece.
Lilliana Robinson: Amazing.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: I want to start. I always start by using this workshop as a flag to explain. Week 2.
Lilliana Robinson: So week 2 kicks off after our travel day, so we'll end the retreat on the 15, th and then we'll be off that Monday. Since we'll have been together the whole retreat, and then you guys can get settled back in wherever home is for you that week. And then once we start back up again on the 17, th which is a Tuesday, we usually use week 2 as a time to put to test everything you've learned for the foundational skills.
Lilliana Robinson: So it'll be a series of presentations. It actually kind of starts in week, one in the jobs to be done, checkpoint presentation where you'll present
Lilliana Robinson: how many interviews you've done, even if it's 1 or 0, and what you've learned, and you can get feedback from us. So that's jobs to be done. The other parts of our foundation that Neil and I believe you guys need to have really grounded before Mentor madness are kpis and financial levers. So you'll be learning more about Kpis next week you'll also be doing Troy's workshop his financial feasibility.
Lilliana Robinson: So with those 2 pieces of learning you'll also be presenting on Wednesday and Thursday about your metrics and your financial levers.
Lilliana Robinson: So those kinds of things will
Lilliana Robinson: be what arena week is. And the whole point of that is really for at the end, Neil to give you a diagnostic view of like where you stand between those 3 things, and you'll also be presenting. This is separate from Arena Week. You'll be presenting your okrs in small groups for feedback from your peers. So that's something I forgot to tell you in the Okrs workshop. But you will be divided into small groups and get feedback from each other on your okrs that week as well. So that's what arena week is. We called it that because it's
Lilliana Robinson: it's kind of like you're going into the arena like gladiator style. But it's not that serious. It's just kind of fun. And then you'll get
Lilliana Robinson: feedback from Neil, so that when you go into mentor madness you'll know, hey? We're kind of weak on financial metrics, but we really know our customer, or we don't know our customer that much, but our metrics are doing really well, and we just need help with identifying our Icp.
Lilliana Robinson: whatever that is. It's very helpful to know yourself and kind of where you stand with everything before you go into mentor madness. So you can optimize the help you want to get during that. So that's the whole point of week 2.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have questions about arena week.
david scott: I've got a quick question. Can you guys hear me? This is Dave.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, we can hear you.
david scott: So with with next week being sort of a 9 to 5 on site.
david scott: our, our, how many interviews are we expected to get through just because next week is kind of blown right in the weekend. We're going to be in in in Tahoe.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would say, just do your best work with what you have. If you don't get all 10 or 15 done, that's okay. We can still draw insights and give you an exposure to the process, and then you can enhance it as you go, and you continue to get them, because not everybody has the ability to schedule time with everyone that you need to talk to. If it's your screening criteria right away.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So our ask is, just do your best.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: In the checkpoint. It's a lot more about getting help. So like, if you have 0 and you need help with like figuring out how to reach out to these people because they're not saying Yes, that's totally valid. That's the whole point of the checkpoint is like where it's kind of just like help each other and see where everyone's at.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of people like get through a lot in pre program like this week before they get to week one especially B to C, but for everyone else that is having trouble. You don't have to have them finished until week, 5 or 6, because your kind of capstone presentation will be during week 6.
Lilliana Robinson: So as long as you have all your interviews done, and you can do your synthesis during week 6 for your presentation that that Thursday, that's all you have to worry about. We'll just be checking in.
david scott: Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: And then always reach out to us. If you're having trouble finding interviewees as well
Lilliana Robinson: cool.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's start this workshop. So that's what arena week is that's separate. This workshop is based on a book called Levers. I've renamed this workshop to business blueprint because it has become so much more than what's just in this lovers book. It has become very much a lot of insights that I've collected over the course of running 12 programs. And so it's shifted into something completely different.
Lilliana Robinson: It blends jobs to be done with the principles in this book. This book, Lovers, is written by Amos Schwartzvar, who is the long time managing director of techstars, Austin. He recently retired, but he ran that for 10 years super. Kind of famous guy in the techstars ecosystem. And then, if you see at the bottom, Troy Hennicoff also is in this book. So like we said, he's the former managing director of Techstar, Chicago, and he'll be teaching you guys financial modeling next week.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I just say a couple more things about this book. I helped review this book when it was getting written by Amos. Amos also helped train me when I joined Texas as an Md. 5 years ago. He is phenomenal
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Trevor along with him, I think, had a similar relationship that Liliana and I do, because I think Trevor for a moment ended up becoming into managing director himself and was helping lead all the Austin programs. And then for Troy, who you all are going to meet next week, who's near and dear to us? There's a whole awesome section in this book that Troy just kind of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: just really rankle. So I've never had a founder who's read this book and and
Neal Sáles-Griffin: felt like they didn't have
Neal Sáles-Griffin: more of a leg up with their business and being successful.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is an absolute like, must read. If you want to get serious about kpis metrics and understanding what investors actually care about with respect to predictability and believability in your model.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you, if you're serious and you want to raise capital, and you're not sure how to make the case and make it real.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It probably has something to do with the fact that you don't have a predictable enough business
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for them to believe in and want to bet on.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and this book will help you do that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's my pitch for that book.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So this book is 4 chapters. We're only going to go through the 1st chapter today, plus a bunch of extra content that I've built on it. So the 1st chapter is called W. 3. And that's what we're going to learn today. It's very much your
Lilliana Robinson: who, what and why of your business or your business blueprint. It's very much a little road map for you. The other sections are completely different. So, like Troy section is financial modeling. There's also revenue formula. And then there's 1 on metrics. So those things together are what Amos calls levers. And this is a
Lilliana Robinson: concept we've already referred to like. You've heard Neil, and I say the word lovers. It's not a proprietary concept from Amos, but what we all mean when we say that if you haven't heard it before. Is you pull this lever for this machine, which is your business, and you know that inputting A will put out B every single time.
Lilliana Robinson: and there are different levers that you pull to make that true. So, understanding every single lever.
Lilliana Robinson: sales, marketing, revenue, understanding your financial model, your customers, all of that.
Lilliana Robinson: having a good grasp on your lovers means that you have a repeatable business model, and repeatability and predictability is the highest tier of business. So if you can reach a repeatable model for your business, you are now a top tier business. That is our hope and goal for you guys. It probably won't happen during program. But within
Lilliana Robinson: several months post program. This is something that we hope for each and every one of you, because that means success to us. Everybody designed to find success differently, some for some people. It's how much you raise all this different stuff for us. It's reaching a repeatable model, because every single time that will win out the investment money will come to you. The customers will be flowing, because you know your lovers, and you will just be successful. 100%.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's what I want all of you to strive for and to keep in your mind as we're going through this, because that's the whole purpose of this workshop.
Lilliana Robinson: So with that, let's go into W. 3.
Lilliana Robinson: So proving your W threes, which is what we're going to define today with data and experiments which you can do later equals reaching repeatability. So today, we're going to define them.
Lilliana Robinson: You will go out and prove it with data and experiments. And once it's validated and you're starting to work based on the findings that you have created, you can reach repeatability. So that's the whole point of understanding this deeply for your business.
Lilliana Robinson: So I have a little exercise for you. But first, st I want you to understand that this is a theory. So everything we're going to write today, you guys are going to need a pen and paper or another. Google, Doc, open some place to write every single thing that you're writing is just speculation.
Lilliana Robinson: So when we leave today, you're gonna have what you think are your W. 3 for your business written down on like a pad of paper. But that means nothing, because we just sat here for 90 min, and you just it came out of your brain so like, I'll tell you tomorrow in the assumptions workshop, these things need to be proven. It's really important to remember. Everything we're talking about is theory. And until you go out and prove it. You can't really take it as truth. So just remember that everything is speculation and theory, for now
Lilliana Robinson: that's where we have to start
Lilliana Robinson: so first, st I'd like each of you quietly on your own. So
Lilliana Robinson: even if you have team members, just do it by yourself.
Lilliana Robinson: Who do you believe your customer is, what are they buying, and why are they buying it? I'm going to give you 60 seconds to write this and just do your best, even if you're not sure.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's meant to be fast, so just try to make the time constraint, because we'll we'll move on in a second game on.
Fabio Caironi: Sorry. Just one question. Why are they buying? It means like, why are they buying it from us, or in general.
Lilliana Robinson: I want you to put. However, you interpret that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Is there it.
Lilliana Robinson: Very deeply into it.
Fabio Caironi: Magic.
Lilliana Robinson: And that's your time. So was that for anyone who wants to unmute too much time, too little or just right to get through all those questions.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I I think you could even go less, because I think I started overthinking it. I could probably have done it in 30 seconds. And then the second 30 seconds is like.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: you know, like, rather than just getting it out. So that that's 1.
Lilliana Robinson: That's interesting. You could answer all these 3 questions in 30 seconds.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Well, the second 30 seconds I spent thinking, did I do them? Right? So I'm not sure clearly.
Lilliana Robinson: Valid.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Etsura.
Çoruh | CogniScope: So yeah, like.
Çoruh | CogniScope: as an instance, it's like I get used to try to
Çoruh | CogniScope: like phrase.
Çoruh | CogniScope: are you possible users so much that it just like
Çoruh | CogniScope: praise in my mind right now. It just like changes every time. But
Çoruh | CogniScope: like, for example, I wrote live service gaming studio product managers, and they buy understanding what to do, to engage their players and connect them emotionally.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, okay, so too much time for all of you. You already know it. You're just able to rattle it off. That's good. I'm glad.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's do the next one.
Lilliana Robinson: So take 90 seconds this time and tell me, how do you know?
Lilliana Robinson: So everything you just wrote on the paper? How do you know
Lilliana Robinson: for this one, I forgot to say, think about any data that you have, or opinions that you have, or also things that if you know you don't know. You would like to go out and find.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, that's the time.
Lilliana Robinson: So again, how was that one
Lilliana Robinson: this time? Too much time, too little or just right.
Fabio Caironi: It took me about 45 seconds. So yeah, I was.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So this whole ideology and like these exercises, might feel tedious. But that's the point. So the whole point here is, we're going to get into the nitty gritty and really dissect those things that you guys just so quickly and easily wrote down, we're going to wonder.
Lilliana Robinson: are they correct? I want to challenge them. And I want to help you guys rethink these because it's really going to be your roadmap for the next 13 weeks. Getting this right is key right now.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: I'm going to put you guys into breakout rooms. With pairings, not from the same company. And I want you guys to complete an exercise.
Lilliana Robinson: The first, st you're going to have the 1st founder explain to the second founder. So one company will explain to the other company, the W. 3 that you just wrote down, and how you know.
Lilliana Robinson: and the listener should not speak. The listener should write down what they're hearing, and any questions that they have.
Lilliana Robinson: Then I'm going to send you guys a message while you're in the breakout room
Lilliana Robinson: that you're gonna switch. And when you switch the person who was the scribe now repeats back to what the 1st founder said, what they heard, and they share any questions that they had. While the founder was speaking. So the more questions that they can ask the better. The 1st founder will not speak, and they'll just listen. So that'll be 90 seconds. Then I'll have you guys switch again.
Lilliana Robinson: and whoever was described the 1st time will now share their W. 3, and the other partner will write down and not talk. The other partner will write down what they're hearing and what questions they have, and then we'll switch one more time. So there are 4 segments, where the person that just wrote down all their notes will repeat back what they heard and any questions.
Lilliana Robinson: and if there's extra time you can begin to answer the questions to your partner. But the whole point is really to just get those questions shared. Not for you to answer them.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have any questions before I put you guys into breakout rooms.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll send you cues in the chat for your timing.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: let's put you guys in
Lilliana Robinson: I'm going to do it by founder. So the whole teams will not be together. We're gonna have completely separate people
Lilliana Robinson: in each breakout room.
Lilliana Robinson: and it's going to be pretty random.
Lilliana Robinson: And Kevin from my team I'm going to put you in a room as well to even out the odd number.
Lilliana Robinson: All right. We'll see you guys in a second.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I took all the founders there.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, good. The recording. Now the recording. Sorry. Now I can shut up.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so what happened? How did that feel? I want to hear from at least 2 of you.
david scott: By. By the way, there are 2 really cool tiki bars in San Francisco. Happy to take you guys.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Duly noted.
Annie Brown: I'll just mention, like, I really really enjoyed talking with William and Dominique, because,
Annie Brown: they have a Beachhead market and we have a beachhead market. That's like very, very niche. So it was cool. Hearing that from another founder.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, you guys have similar experiences with your businesses. I caught that
Uğur: We also, like me and Nick were pretty compatible, I guess, in matching because we are analyzing people who play games, and he happens to be a gamer, and he happens to be a gamer. He happens to be a person who's playing a game that I am very intimate with.
Uğur: So you know I was able to, you know. Pick out well, if you're doing that and doing that, you fall into this category in our game, and then my both of my parents are teachers, and my entire family is comprised of teachers, both in the father's side and the mother's side. So, and he's doing a student preparation
Uğur: tech for the Iv students. So I guess that was pretty cool.
Lilliana Robinson: So glad you guys enjoyed it. I.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What's the game?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Uğur: Yeah, apparently he was playing League of Legends, and I gave the example out of League of Legends. So.
Lilliana Robinson: You know.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You guys, are, you guys are on a different level? All right.
Lilliana Robinson: We have so many similarities between all of you amongst the class. It's awesome. So I'm wondering, did anybody like try to explain their W. 3. And then what they heard back was like, totally not what they thought they had said. Did anybody have trouble getting their listener to like really understand exactly what it was? Or were you surprised with what they heard.
Barış Ülgen: Well, I I think. Oh, I'm sorry. Stick! Go on.
Lilliana Robinson: The rest.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: And ecosystem.
Barış Ülgen: Okay, I I have a little personal note. I I'm not the one. Usually. I'm not the one. The talk to the one in my team. So I usually over or your talks. So it was kind of a different
Barış Ülgen: experience for me to express
Barış Ülgen: all of these things that I have in mind about our company, so
Barış Ülgen: I'm trying to get better at it. And this was really fun for me and educated for me personally. So I just wanted to add that.
Lilliana Robinson: I'm so glad you added that brush. I literally have a slide for that. Everyone on your team needs to understand and believe your W. 3. You need to be able to articulate it. I I'm so happy to hear you say that it was a good experience for you, because not just the CEO, every single team member in the room today and not in the room today. So those of you who have part time participants who are part of your company, but they're not in tech stars.
Lilliana Robinson: Every single person needs to be able to thoroughly understand and believe in your company's. W. 3.
Lilliana Robinson: The reason for this not only is for company alignment in your joint goals and initiatives, but also because you never know what the opportunities, what opportunities, might come for every single employee that you have.
Lilliana Robinson: someone might be in an elevator with a key investor or stakeholder or customer, that
Lilliana Robinson: if they were able to pitch your W. Threes and explain your business, could unlock huge opportunities for your business. The the CEO is not the only one who exists in the world who represents the company, so I can't tell you how many co-founders, employees not even co-founders, just team members in general have been able to unlock opportunities because they went through techstars or their team did, and they were able to articulate their W. 3.
Lilliana Robinson: These opportunities come up
Lilliana Robinson: all times, and you have to be ready for them so definitely, making sure that your team is aligned on this, and that everyone can do it. So, Brush. I loved that.
david scott: Juliana, how do you feel about the need to customize the W. 3 to your audience? So one customer might resonate with one aspect of your story versus an investor, you might think of it differently. So on and so forth.
Lilliana Robinson: I would definitely say, just in general, the the way you would talk about your business to an investor versus a customer is different. But to an investor understanding your customer deeply is extremely attractive to them. So it's it's not as different as you might think.
Lilliana Robinson: I I saw Neil nodding his head. Did you want to add to that.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Nope, you.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Annie Brown: I had a kind of a question to build on that I was gonna wait. But
Annie Brown: One thing I've struggled with is talking about the beachhead with investors, because it kind of distracts from like the bigger picture. And they get like hyper focused on that one niche that we're working on, and so
Annie Brown: maybe not to answer now, but just kind of putting it out. There. That that's something that's like one of the goals I put on my sheet was to really like, think about like
Annie Brown: how we communicate. Why, we're approaching the market like we're approaching it.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I would start with the the grand vision, and then work your way backward to say, Here's our wedge to get there.
Annie Brown: Okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So if you lead in with how you're like what you're doing now, people will get distracted.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: especially on the investor side. But if you start with the big outcome and desired, like, you know, Vision, for what you're going to do. And you say, and here's how I'm going to make it. I'm starting here, small, but and then you elaborate.
david scott: It. Could the grand vision be too big, be too big for cause I I and it scared a lot of them.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And sound, naive.
david scott: Yeah, okay.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, yeah. There's a sweet.
Lilliana Robinson: Are you?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sweet spot we'll we'll help you with that. But, like the notion is that you have to signal a big enough vision where it can get even bigger with their input meaning, like, you'll sell them on the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: what you you're claiming the big vision is. And they're gonna add, Oh, but you could also expand verticals. And like, you know, they're gonna get excited. Think they're like, have more ownership in it, whatever. But you already thought of it. They're just, you know, just making them feel good.
Lilliana Robinson: Absolutely.
Lilliana Robinson: So we're going to do a ton of exercises like what you just did in the breakout room, practicing being able to articulate your business in a short amount of time. So
Lilliana Robinson: you had in total, 3 min, basically 90 seconds back and forth. How? Basically, if that didn't work, and you need more time, and you're not sure exactly how to explain it. How can you grab someone's attention in much less time? So what I mean to say, here is
Lilliana Robinson: we talk about elevator pitches, 60 second pitches. You really only have 5 to 10 seconds to answer somebody. At all of the events, we're going to put you guys in front of. So you meet a mentor at our event next week. They ask you what you're working on. You have probably about 10 seconds, Max, to get their attention. And that's what I want you guys to be able to do. I want in that very short amount of time, those few seconds for them to be able to probably feel
Lilliana Robinson: how well you know your business and for them to understand what your business is and does and who they serve.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's our goal. Also. Everything that you just explained was also speculation. Like, I said, you guys just wrote those down on a paper and then gave it. So we're going to get into now the actual nitty gritty of your w threes.
Lilliana Robinson: One more caveat is that until you have data, you shouldn't go too far in any one direction. So a lot of you are probably like steadfast and ready like this is my who this is who I'm serving, and I'm sure
Lilliana Robinson: what they say in the book is being lost in the middle of nowhere, like if you were just dropped in the desert, and there are not very many landmarks or anything to be able to know where you are. You wouldn't just pick a random direction and walk in that direction, and hope you'll find water or a city.
Lilliana Robinson: You would start looking for landmarks, for small signs, for any sort of data, you can tell that you're going in the right direction, and it's the same for your business. So make sure that you are wary of that. If any of you are going off of a lot of assumptions which we'll talk more about tomorrow. Don't just go off of a bunch of assumptions and speculation of what you feel is correct and go too far in that direction. We want to be extremely conservative and hinge at all on validation and data.
Lilliana Robinson: So Baresh got this point for us. We're already ready, so let's jump into w. 1.
Lilliana Robinson: So w. 1 is the who
Lilliana Robinson: who do, I believe is my customer. So I'm going to teach you guys about this, and then we're going to go back through and try and rewrite what what you have.
Lilliana Robinson: So who do, I believe is my customer.
Lilliana Robinson: This should be at full scale. Your total addressable market.
Lilliana Robinson: just like Annie was asking. But for now
Lilliana Robinson: start narrow.
Lilliana Robinson: It should be extremely uncomfortable. I know a lot of you want to talk in great detail about how big your business is going to be, and all of that. But right now your w. 1 should be a tight control group, very much like we were talking about with screening criteria.
Lilliana Robinson: Even if your w. 1 segment is point 0 0 1% of the entire market that you'll eventually get to capture.
Lilliana Robinson: At least you'll have absolute confidence that you can make a sale to every single one of those members in your Icp.
Lilliana Robinson: That's how narrow it should be. Neil hinted at this in his jobs to be done lecture that I would get into this this week, and that's exactly what I'm saying now, every single person in your w. 1 should result in a sale because of how narrow and niche it is, and how well you know their segment.
Lilliana Robinson: This is not where you're ending.
Lilliana Robinson: It's where you're starting, so that you can get a very deep understanding of all of the attributes, circumstances, and struggles that exist in that small segment. There's no such thing as too narrow. So if you feel like you are, you're probably in the right direction, and if you're just
Lilliana Robinson: putting something on the paper like all of you did, I would say you probably need to half or even quarter the amount of people that are in that segment that you talked about.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, if I can just add one thing here, Liliana, to say it in a different way to reinforce what she just said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: We really mean it. Like
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's there's someone, probably, who you are getting closer to understanding, based on your jobs to be done and your analysis, where, if you got a chance to get in front of them with what you are building or what you have.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: they would just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: be so ready to say yes on the spot.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Whoever that perfect customer is is what we're looking for a descriptor for here nothing more.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And I I find founders, unfortunately, because I think this whole venture market conditions. You all to think more broadly. So you need to serve a large group.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I'm I'm giving you permission to forget about scale and massiveness and size and all that stuff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I just want you to get one perfect customer.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So think about who that person is, and we'll go from there.
Lilliana Robinson: That's perfect.
Lilliana Robinson: So this next slide is something I love to talk about. It is the diffusion of innovation or the innovator's curve.
Lilliana Robinson: Many of you might have seen this before. Some of you haven't. A lot of the founders coming into techstars have not seen this, which is why I started teaching it in this workshop. So basically, what you're looking at here is
Lilliana Robinson: the adoption curve for any new technology at for the entire public. So it starts off with innovators who are okay with risk. And then we go into early adopters also, okay, with risk and getting in there early before they hear about it from everyone. Then there's this chasm, and there's a very famous book about crossing the chasm. That's what it's called I highly recommend it. It's about sales.
Lilliana Robinson: and then you get into early majority and late majority. This is when most of the the people out in the public are talking about it. You see it on social media. It's it's a well known household name. And then at the end we get to laggards and laggards. I always explain as
Lilliana Robinson: people who are in the nursing home learning. Google for the 1st time, like, those are the kinds of people that are laggards. You guys should basically not even consider the laggards and consider like that. You will never reach them, because that's what monoliths are after. At this point only big companies like Apple Google Microsoft are worried about the laggards because they've already captured all the way through the late majority.
Lilliana Robinson: So for you guys, I used to like, ask the question, where do you guys think that you are? A lot of people say early majority.
Lilliana Robinson: which makes sense. You think you're early, maybe even early adopters.
Lilliana Robinson: We are in the innovator section, every single one of you. And we're not even in the innovator section. I like to say, we're on the line of the block that starts the innovator section like exactly where that arrow points that little black line. That's us, we're at the point 0 0 1% of the entire tam.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is just to put into perspective. That's correct. That's what we want. We want to be so narrow and so targeted and have such a strong and deep understanding of that. And then we expand outward.
Lilliana Robinson: So does anyone have questions on this diffusion of innovation
Lilliana Robinson: curve. This is very important that you understand.
Fabio Caironi: First, st mark.
Lilliana Robinson: Fabio! Go ahead!
Fabio Caironi: Yeah. And I just think it's very smart.
Fabio Caironi: I I can just picture many people we talk to that were maybe in the late majority, or even in in a laggers. And I'm just realizing now that
Fabio Caironi: I didn't use this as a criteria when I was kind of like sizing them up or just figuring out what kind of customer they could be. But I should have this.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah, yeah, I'm just like wasting your time, worry.
Fabio Caironi: talk to innovators.
Lilliana Robinson: Exactly. It is a waste of time you will get there. Starting a company is a 6 to 8 year journey. I promise you'll get to late majority, because we want all of you to be extremely successful and reach your full scale. But for now we're in the innovators.
Lilliana Robinson: Annie, did you have a question, someone else unmuted.
Annie Brown: Oh, I was just I I was just gonna say I was. I'm wondering if and you might cover this later. But if there's a
Annie Brown: a chasm between
Annie Brown: the innovators, and early adopters, too.
Lilliana Robinson: That's a good question. I think I think there's a small chasm between every section, because you are making a leap to a new segment, and it has, like different criteria. But it's just not the biggest leap.
Annie Brown: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: The reason there's a chasm there is because it like that's where most businesses hit their pitfalls like they get all the early adapters you hear about them? I'm sure you guys can think of a lot of ones that maybe you saw on Kickstarter you heard a lot about, but
Lilliana Robinson: they don't make it to early majority. They don't make it to the point that your friends know about it. Your parents know about it. They just can't cross that chasm.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Beyond the series, a Annie. So like, if you think about it, there's companies that end up doing quite well, like a lot of my, I have a lot of companies that are now moving into the early Adopter phase over the past 5 years.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: where they're making millions of dollars. They're serving thousands and tens of thousands of customers. But now they're at that weird spot of are we going to make it? Are we going to blow through, or are we going to flatten out or stagnate?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So it's a really sensitive spot right there. But if you get over it, then you win
Neal Sáles-Griffin: cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, are we good to move on from
Lilliana Robinson: diffusion of innovation? Any other questions?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, this is crucial. And I will refer back to this the whole program, because this is a huge part of understanding markets. And what you guys are going to go after now versus in the future.
Lilliana Robinson: Once you know your who intimately
Lilliana Robinson: that very narrow segment, you can identify every attribute of what makes that? Who a perfect customer. And then, once you've validated your theory of this narrow group, you can make a list of all of the attributes and situations and struggles and circumstances that they're under of this narrow segment, and then you test each 1 1 by one to expand your base outward at a high success rate.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's kind of the secret. So you have this narrow segment that you're hitting 100% of the time. And you know this list of things about them. So maybe it's like, if we go to the snickers example. Maybe it's
Lilliana Robinson: not just people who are in a rush of the airport. Maybe people will leisurely want a snickers as well. So if we, you know, change our marketing toward that. Does that expand our base things like that? So you test every single attribute. And it's a much more systematic approach to expanding your market than just these random throwing darts against the wall that most people do. So. That's why I love this. It's anyone who likes data or a very systems oriented approach. This is absolutely that.
Lilliana Robinson: So a lot of people ask me around this point of the workshop, what's the difference between this and Jtvd. And a long time ago I used to teach W. 3 on its own as completely separate. And then I realized these things go together. So
Lilliana Robinson: while they're both related to starting with a narrow group of customers, one is for interviewing, the other is for sales. W. 3 is a theory about your business. So the whole point of W. 3 is knowing your business, and you're making this theory in jobs to be done. We don't make a theory. There's no hypothesis. You're setting out to learn something, and you don't make a guess. You just go and talk to those people for W. 3. We're trying to make a theory, and we're trying to test it to know if it's correct.
Lilliana Robinson: So the Jtbd. The answer to this question is that
Lilliana Robinson: the interviews and the customer. Discovery insights you're going to get from doing. That is the tool to verify whether or not your W. 3 is correct. So that's how we're going to use the 2 hand in hand. It's kind of like a superpower, and if done well, something magical happens.
Lilliana Robinson: Amos calls it magical. I would just call it
Lilliana Robinson: success. In this process it will directly inform your product roadmap and your financial model in a very predictable way.
Lilliana Robinson: So without understanding this, W. 3, you're kind of making a product roadmap and financial model in the dark.
Lilliana Robinson: Troy talks about it like driving with your eyes shut like you're you're not really using a map.
Lilliana Robinson: This is your map. That's why I've renamed this to business blueprint. This is your blueprint. This is your roadmap, and it will directly inform your product and your finances in a predictable manner. So you'll be able to make those bets correctly. You can invest the 10 K in making this product, because you know exactly what to build.
Lilliana Robinson: One more caveat is for 2 sided marketplaces. You will have 2. Who's you will have 2 W ones
Lilliana Robinson: focus on the one that gives you money.
Lilliana Robinson: But then you should go back later and do the other half, just like in jobs we done.
Lilliana Robinson: So I want you guys to take. I'm going to give you
Lilliana Robinson: 90 seconds to write down your who, based on everything that we just talked about.
Lilliana Robinson: try to make it as narrow as possible.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Can I ask a question.
Lilliana Robinson: Absolutely.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: I have a who in mind. But
Kirimgeray Kirimli: essentially.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: I have a who in mind which I think is really really ideal.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: But that's more difficult to reach than
Kirimgeray Kirimli: other. Who's that I can think of? Who would
Kirimgeray Kirimli: be more?
Kirimgeray Kirimli: It would be easier to reach, to reach out to, but
Kirimgeray Kirimli: might not necessarily be
Kirimgeray Kirimli: as interested in the, in my product?
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Shall I still stay focused on whom I think is ideal, and ignore
Kirimgeray Kirimli: the challenges of reaching to that customer.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's a really good question. So like, how much does accessibility play a role in this? I would say, if you're going after people who are more accessible like you can reach them more easily. But they're not as ideal. They're also not accessible.
Lilliana Robinson: They're not going to be able to be sold to 100% of the time. So how hard to reach is this ideal customer?
Lilliana Robinson: Is it just a challenge of time? Because that's okay. A lot of b 2 b companies are.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: Essentially, since we're b 2 b company, the higher you go up in the organization, the more likely it is that they will find their tool useful.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: But if I go lower in the organization, a manager is more likely to respond to me than the CTO.
Kirimgeray Kirimli: But a CTO is gonna find my tool more useful.
Lilliana Robinson: I think we want to go with who is ideal, because even if they're easier to reach out to if they're going to say no, there's no point. Your efforts would have been better spent on trying to reach the harder to reach one who is more ideal.
Lilliana Robinson: If you know that that's a better person to sell to, and I have an example of selling to the higher ups in a second.
Lilliana Robinson: But I I love that question. I I think we should try and change our mindsets where. Yeah, some people might be a low hanging fruit if they're not ideal, you're just going to get a no every single time. And that's a waste of your time for outreach.
Lilliana Robinson: I want you guys to be using your time for 100% hit rates. You're you're getting the sale every single time, or else it's a waste of your time. And the whole reason we are the whole ability to do that is based on knowing a very narrow w. 1.
Lilliana Robinson: So does anybody want to share what they wrote down for their very narrow w. 1 before we move on.
Kevin Su: Sorry. I actually had a quick question before. Sure is, is that is that okay?
Kevin Su: So me and Nick, we have a mentee, and he is he. He absolutely loves our product. He reached out to us first, st saying, Hey, love, what you guys are doing. I have so many ideas. I wanna help out. How can I do this? But I think my question here is, do we just backwards engineer, almost. And just describe this exact person who was making all this effort to contact us reach out to us. And you know it's really like a Dawson's early curve like is that
Kevin Su: to. I know we want to get narrow. How narrow are we going there is that, do we put too much faith on just user number one or.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Probably one that you want more of that's believable. Right? So the what you're describing sounds exceptional meaning like this is someone who literally hunted you down, and like.
Kevin Su: Right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Like they, they, they, yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this is, I think it's more of the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you're. You're. You're right to ask this question because you do want to take it one step easier you like. I'm not saying I want all my customers to sell themselves on me and then present themselves to me.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I won't have to do anything like, so that does sound like a reach.
Kevin Su: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Think rep being replicable is very important.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's what like Neil's calling this person an exception, because you're not going to be able to replicate that
Lilliana Robinson: reaching out to people. And I'm saying, Yes, that is replicable.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's really that's important. Here.
Kevin Su: Got it. Okay, appreciate it.
Lilliana Robinson: That was a great question.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's take one example of someone's who.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, George.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Cool. Thanks. Yeah, I'm happy to. So
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I said. I'm looking for the CEO of Boutique Qualitative Market Research Company with over a million dollars annual revenue who struggles to hire enough staff and has a backed up sales pipeline
George Reed - CEO and Founder: cause I've met a few of those.
Lilliana Robinson: I love. How narrow that is! I would make the last statement a little bit more of like what we were saying. Boolean, like it's a true or false like what what defines a backed up sales cycle, or hard hard to hire people like? Did they lose a couple of recruits like they've lost 2 more recruits in the past year something like that where it's like someone could read that and say, that's me.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: And awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: Really good. That was a really good example. Do you guys see how narrow that was?
Lilliana Robinson: Not only the type of company who who at the company you qualified the company. That's something that usually people don't do. I was grateful to hear you say that, so you can say like companies. 50 to 100 employees, you said, with over a million in revenue. That's a great qualifier. All of that was great
Lilliana Robinson: cool. Let's move to W. 2. Yeah, Kevin.
Lilliana Robinson: No, all good. I don't want to take your question.
Kevin Su: Sorry I I was. I thought we were all just just sharing I was. Gonna I was gonna share mine as well. We can.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, you can share your W, you can share the next one. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's move on to W. 2. I'm wary of the time. So let's just keep moving forward, and I'll stay on and evaluate people's after if you so want to present.
Lilliana Robinson: So W. 2 is the what this is, what do I believe my customer is buying from me. This one has a huge distinction. So like someone asked when we were doing the
Lilliana Robinson: very 1st exercise.
Lilliana Robinson: Do we mean
Lilliana Robinson: what they think we're buying, or what I'm selling? That's exactly what we have here. So what they're buying is different than what you are selling. Most people coming into tech stars. Tell me what they're selling.
Lilliana Robinson: All of you know exactly what you're selling, you know. Why you're selling it.
Lilliana Robinson: But do you know what the customers are buying from you? It's very similar to jobs to be done, so there's a distinction here. Customers don't care what you do. They don't care that you have this platform with all these bells and whistles, and this is what you do, what you provide. They care what you do for them. So there's this concept of the selfish buyer, which is every single buyer, and that's completely fine. And it's up to us to accept that about them. They only care what you can do for them.
Lilliana Robinson: So what's the difference between what you do and what you can do for them?
Lilliana Robinson: The difference is the job just like jobs to be done.
Lilliana Robinson: So you want to lead with how the product is going to impact their lives. I'll recall to Neil's example. Quarter inch drill versus. If you remember the example, a hole in the wall
Lilliana Robinson: when someone is at home depot buying this quarter inch drill home depot so excited they sell all the different drills with all the different bits, every single model that they could ever fathom. The person going in just wants a hole in their wall. They're not buying the drill from them. They don't care about what the what different drills they're selling. They want the best item to get the thing that they want to accomplish, which is a hole in the wall. So whichever one is going to be the best for the situation that they're in. That's what they're interested in.
Lilliana Robinson: So W. 2 is not always
Lilliana Robinson: concrete, and sometimes it's more than one thing.
Lilliana Robinson: Sometimes it's a little bit more abstract. Also, the W. 2 can help inform your w. 1.
Lilliana Robinson: So if your who is correct, you'll have data that shows your who cares about your what if you're facing problems trying to validate your your, what? You should probably go back to your w. 1, because that means your who isn't correct. So they directly feed into one another.
Lilliana Robinson: So when I say it's not always concrete. Another example I always like to give is haircuts.
Lilliana Robinson: So when I'm going to get a haircut. All of the salons are selling all these different cuts and all of these different services. But what am I buying? Well, actually, what are each of you buying
Lilliana Robinson: when you go
Lilliana Robinson: to buy a haircut? What are you buying? What matters to you?
Fabio Caironi: Yes, I don't.
Kevin Su: It's.
Fabio Caironi: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: And again
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin.
Kevin Su: No, I just said to look good afterwards. That's what I'm buying.
Lilliana Robinson: To look. Good. Okay. Flow.
Florence Ettlin: That my hair is healthy, and that I don't have split ends.
Lilliana Robinson: So health. You want your hair to be healthy. Okay, Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: That. They know what they're doing, so I know I'm in good hands.
Lilliana Robinson: Say it again, say it louder.
Fabio Caironi: That they know what they're doing. So they're professionals.
Lilliana Robinson: You're buying their yeah, their professionalism and their expertise. George.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: I was, gonna say, peace of mind, nothing to worry about the inconvenience of
Lilliana Robinson: Doing it yourself, or.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: No, just of like.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Yeah, like, right now, I need a haircut right now. It's annoying me.
Lilliana Robinson: You want. You want your hair out of your face, you're buying peace of mind. Might be even buying more hours at work because you were annoyed with the the hair like we could take it a step further. All.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Windy or anything. Oh, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Or what about you?
Uğur: Well, it might be a local thing, but here the barbers and their clients usually get very into it, and you know, they share a lot of stories. They share a lot of, you know, chitchat that's supposed to be relieving, and some of them do really extensive head massages. So those could be both as well. I am buying them.
Uğur: Maybe I'll do that, so.
Lilliana Robinson: That's definitely cultural, like my husband is very close with his barber, and when he goes it's definitely for sociality as well as the haircut. I completely agree with that. And then it sounds like you're also buying stress relief from the massage.
Uğur: Yeah, like, like, literally, my barber knows more about my business that my parents combined.
Lilliana Robinson: That's awesome. I haven't heard that one before, but I completely agree. So exactly. These are the. This is our what this is, what we mean by what? So I want to challenge you guys, shift your mind from what you're selling to what your customer is buying. So take a look at the w. 1 that you wrote down
Lilliana Robinson: and write down A. W. 2. For what? That segment that specific segment you wrote down. What are they buying from you
Lilliana Robinson: don't get into. Why they care.
Lilliana Robinson: We'll get into that. Just the what
Lilliana Robinson: take
Lilliana Robinson: 90 seconds.
Lilliana Robinson: I guess.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, we can take 2
Lilliana Robinson: people. What did you guys write as your what and I will caution you to lead with how the product is going to impact your customers lives rather than any amazing features. So if you wrote anything down about your features, you probably want to rethink it only about the impact. Let's do, Dave and Talitha. And then, Kevin, I told you you could also present.
Lilliana Robinson: Go ahead, Dan.
Dave Scott: I'm curious if I got this right. But my customers are buying into a gaming system that they believe will fulfill their story storytelling needs and provide enjoyment to their players.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I would even argue. They're not. They're not buying the gaming system. It's more the things that you said. After that
Lilliana Robinson: I think the the gaming system might be more of what you're selling, the the things that come to fruition because of them buying it.
Dave Scott: Got it. And then also, they're buying into a community and a subculture to some degree.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I love that. So they're buying community. They're buying. Yeah, they're buying friends, sociality. It makes them happy. What was the second thing you said.
Dave Scott: Subculture! They're buying into a subculture. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Those things. So it's it's a lot less about the product itself.
Lilliana Robinson: It's about the things they're getting from it. That's perfect, Talitha.
Talitha Abraham: I didn't know I didn't write it like a sentence, but I just listed a couple of things. So number one is peace of mind, so that they don't have to deal with any of the nuisances that come with dealing with guests or their issues. Secondly, is time back in their day, and the freedom to use it in the way that they would wish, whether that is, with their personal life, but also with their own business. And the 3rd one is the ability to be able to actually grow their business more.
Talitha Abraham: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: That's great. I think every single one of you can probably write peace of mind on yours. So I like to caution that cause. That's like a pretty general one. What? What is it? Exactly. That's specific to your customer, that one's. It's very easy to write that, because if you're making a solution to a problem that inherently gives peace of mind. Right? That's what problem solving is. So most of you probably did write that it's not wrong. It's just too vague. So try and like, make it a little bit more specific to your business. But the other 2 I completely agree.
Lilliana Robinson: So.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin, did you want to go.
Kevin Su: Yeah, sure.
Kevin Su: they're buying an efficient way to study, either due to convenience or necessity.
Kevin Su: They want something that can help them out 24 HA day that they
Kevin Su: where they themselves don't have to know what they don't know. They want to feel confident that they know the information leading up to exams, and they want to be comfortable in their own space.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I think we kind of got into it more. With the last 2. They're buying confidence and comfort. The 1st couple I heard a couple of like features like 24, 7 access things like that. I would say, if they're buying a a study help whatever the 1st one was where you said they're buying help with study. That that's a little bit more about what you're offering are what are they buying? Are they buying the good grade like. Is that why they need study help? I would argue, yes, that's probably more what they're buying from that like. What is the consequence of it?
Lilliana Robinson: The good grade. They're buying success in their class for those 1st few, but the second 2 were very good.
Lilliana Robinson: Good.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: I just had a quick question about this cause I I saw a lot of people like bringing up matters of like like psychology, or like emotions, and like the buying process, which I think is a part of the job to be done. That. You guys like had us do for the application.
Fabio Caironi: I was wondering, like, how important it is to include it in like the what they're buying, because, like, you know, they're buying, for example, with us was like the possibility to eliminate or reduce the complex, the complexity of setting up a computer for structure. But I was wondering if I should include the like, the emotion or like I don't know the more like personal effect in this
Fabio Caironi: creates in the in the buyer like peace of mind, or all these other aspects.
Lilliana Robinson: That's a good question. I think not. Every single business, the what is emotional. So
Lilliana Robinson: it doesn't have to be like for the barber example. Some of us are buying confidence. Other people are just buying sociality, or, like George, it's much more utilitarian. He just wants to be less annoyed with the long hair. So I think what you said sounds like. It's not a very emotional buy. But I will say most of you for the why the W. 3 we're about to do will be pretty emotional.
Lilliana Robinson: So some of you, the what and the why will be emotional for a lot of the b 2 b, the what probably isn't or it's a smaller one and the main. What is much more
Lilliana Robinson: practical, kind of like what you just said Fabio.
Lilliana Robinson: That's a good question.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's go into W. 3. This is my favorite favorite one, because this is kind of where it all clicks. So this is the why, why does my customer buy from me? So we know what they're buying. And every single one that we just heard of those examples, we could say, Okay, well, why do they want that? And that's key. Because, knowing what isn't going to sell it, knowing why they want it is what's key to getting these people to say, yes.
Lilliana Robinson: So the Y is the value your customers get from what they're buying. So the outcome. So there's what they're buying which give
Lilliana Robinson: gives them a certain part of value that we need to
Lilliana Robinson: extract and dissect and understand. And that's this, why? So it's the outcome. Let's go back to the haircut example
Lilliana Robinson: for me and a couple of others who said, When I'm buying a haircut, I'm buying confidence from the
Lilliana Robinson: salon.
Lilliana Robinson: whether it's because I want
Lilliana Robinson: their expertise, or I feel better when I get a haircut. Whatever it is, I want to buy confidence. Why?
Lilliana Robinson: Well, for me, one reason why I might get a haircut is because I have a big work event.
Lilliana Robinson: So I want to get that promotion. And you can ask why again, maybe I want to get the promotion because I want to buy a house because I want to impress my family because I want to. You can ask why? A 1,000 times kind of like, Neil said. In jobs to be done. You kind of want to stop at a certain point because it'll get existential.
Lilliana Robinson: What's another example. For the haircut. So if they're buying it for confidence, why, I can think of a couple of others. What could be a why, for that.
Morgan Stanton: Be like
Morgan Stanton: looking good for your job, looking nice for a date kind of thing. I like.
Lilliana Robinson: There we go. Interesting. Yeah, I completely agree.
Lilliana Robinson: You're buying confidence. Why? Because you have a date. And why do you want to look good for the date because you want a second date, or because you want this person to think highly of you because you have an interview, and you want to get that job because you want this new life change. You want to move whatever it is. There are so many reasons. And you could extract all of those just from this person buying a haircut. And you see it right. You see it in haircut ads like there are reasons that people buy haircuts, and they market it to us for those reasons. So that's the why.
Lilliana Robinson: Now.
Lilliana Robinson: equally as important is, how does my customer measure that? Why? So? There's understanding their why. But if you can't explain to them that.
Lilliana Robinson: or show them that you are helping them achieve that, why, in the way that they measure it. It means nothing.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: I want you to differentiate how your customer measures value and how you measure value. So a lot of you might think that you're bringing value to your customer because of Xyz. But if the way they measure value is completely, completely different, then that means nothing to them.
Lilliana Robinson: Real life example. Amos talks about his time@business.com
Lilliana Robinson: business.com is selling insights into customer or into competitors products.
Lilliana Robinson: So, however, business.com measures. That why.
Lilliana Robinson: it doesn't matter
Lilliana Robinson: what their customers measure that, why it, as what they found by interviewing them, is additional revenue brought in by those leads when they convert to sales.
Lilliana Robinson: So if business.com was previously measuring, how successful they were providing value to their comp customers, as how many insights or how many leads they gave into their customers products.
Lilliana Robinson: They wouldn't be completely off base because their customers, they realize only care about the additional revenue that's brought in when those leads convert to sales
Lilliana Robinson: being lead Gen. And giving them a bunch of leads actually means nothing to them if they don't convert. So they had to change their strategy in order to provide that value to customers. And they realized that's actually why they were losing customers.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense
Lilliana Robinson: home?
Lilliana Robinson: So moving forward. Another caveat is that b 2 b has 2. Why's this has been a big like slide. I was waiting for for you guys because a lot of you asked this during the understanding. Your customers last week?
Lilliana Robinson: B. 2 B. Has 2. Why's there's the business as a whole.
Lilliana Robinson: and there's the decision maker as a person.
Lilliana Robinson: The second one is very important at the start.
Lilliana Robinson: If you can figure out how the decision maker as an actual person who has human emotions and wants.
Lilliana Robinson: How that decision maker as a person measures the value you're bringing them.
Lilliana Robinson: you can figure out their motivation and why they're buying your product or service, and therefore you can get them to say yes.
Lilliana Robinson: an example.
Lilliana Robinson: The company measures value from your like a company
Lilliana Robinson: measures their value, that you're giving them from your lead Gen. Software as business com by the extra revenue it brings in like, I just said.
Lilliana Robinson: But if your individual decision maker
Lilliana Robinson: is the chief revenue officer.
Lilliana Robinson: and the companies that you're targeting have a chief revenue officer who has no personal incentive to surpass the revenue goals that they already meet without your product. Then you're going to be hitting a wall. You're going to know that you can help these businesses. But the decision maker keeps saying, No.
Lilliana Robinson: that's because there's no motivation there. So
Lilliana Robinson: this is a real life example business.com had to adjust their w. 1
Lilliana Robinson: to specifically companies with chief revenue officers who are financially incentivized to surpass revenue goals.
Lilliana Robinson: Once they started
Lilliana Robinson: targeting businesses that had that exact w. 1 with the decision maker. Having that incentive aligned. They started converting to sales because they would get in with the chief revenue officer. He would say yes, and then the business as a whole. They already know that they can provide value there. So, figuring out how the decision maker measures value is very important as well, you need to treat them as a person. And then there's the business as a whole that you also need to serve.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have questions here? Because this is a really important point.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so feel free to adjust your w. 1 and W. 2, as you think about your W. 3.
Lilliana Robinson: Remember that all of these are theories at the end of this workshop. In about 15 min you will have a set of W. 3 S. But you will need to go out and test them, using jobs to be done.
Lilliana Robinson: So one more note, one more story I have for B. 2 B. That I alluded to last week is bloom filter. So you'll meet the CEO of Bloom filter during program. This was a 2022 company we had in our summer cohort in Techstar, Chicago. They came in and they were targeting businesses,
Lilliana Robinson: technology businesses who had between 50 and a hundred employees.
Lilliana Robinson: They were targeting Ctos at those businesses, and they were targeting people who had
Lilliana Robinson: had 2 to 3
Lilliana Robinson: developmental errors that caused significant backup in in revenue throughout the year. Because they were kind of a Jira competitor. So they were helping developers figure out their problems and their bottlenecks in their development to streamline their software processes and rollouts.
Lilliana Robinson: What they realized was that their w. 1 was all wrong. They were selling to Ctos. The Ctos actually didn't care as much about these
Lilliana Robinson: backups in the processes of flowing out product.
Lilliana Robinson: The Ctos at these companies were much more worried about other things. It was the chief innovation officers who ended up caring about this streamlined process about stopping these bottlenecks that were inhibiting progress. So when they changed the decision maker to being the chief innovation officer, I think they realized that the chief innovation officer is the one who's
Lilliana Robinson: job was on the line by not
Lilliana Robinson: having their processes streamlined and having all these backups, they realized the chief innovation officer was also the one that would get promoted if they brought in this like product if they championed bloom filter. So they started targeting chief innovation officers as their businesses champion.
Lilliana Robinson: and he would bring in, he or she would bring in their product and champion it like no other. These deals started going through very quickly, and they've grown exponentially. They are doing extremely well. I don't know if, Neil, you want to talk about
Lilliana Robinson: where they're at currently, but you'll get to meet their CEO. So that's 1 of my favorite examples of real life. Tech stars. W, 3, helping scale a business.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so let's take 90 seconds to do your, why
Lilliana Robinson: write down your theory on the why question how you believe your customers will measure them, and then how you can ensure you have the right tools to measure it in the way that they do, so that you can prove that you're providing the value to them.
Lilliana Robinson: Take 90 seconds.
Lilliana Robinson: All right, that's our time. So
Lilliana Robinson: do a couple of people want to share their? Why.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah, sure.
Çoruh | CogniScope: Okay, this was a bit harder, actually.
Çoruh | CogniScope: But yeah.
Çoruh | CogniScope: I said, to develop a game that will be played on a large scale for decade for a decade with understanding every player deeply in real time, at 1 3rd of a cost than usual.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's definitely the why for the business.
Lilliana Robinson: What about for the person who's going to say yes to you? Why are they specifically incentivized to.
Lilliana Robinson: To do this?
Lilliana Robinson: Is it like they get promoted within the company? If they can bring these insights or.
Çoruh | CogniScope: And they they.
Çoruh | CogniScope: the decision maker, will have less thoughts on what people are saying. So because he can understand in in real time
Çoruh | CogniScope: and business as a whole
Çoruh | CogniScope: can a profit
Çoruh | CogniScope: a lot by May developing a game that is played over a decade.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I like that kind of like legacy thinking, because I also think that that's attractive for the decision maker. A lot of decision makers in like b 2 b will like being the champion of something that brings a lot of glory to the company right? Like everyone wants to be that champion for the company. So if they're the one that brings something in that makes this game a hit for 10 years, that's a huge incentive.
Lilliana Robinson: and that's something you can use and play to when you sell to them.
Çoruh | CogniScope: And the measurement tools for these y is the live player, count
Çoruh | CogniScope: and money per like feed
Çoruh | CogniScope: money spent per feedback, analyzed.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, that's how they care about it. So if you can get that down, they would be happy.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I like that. I think that's a great example.
Lilliana Robinson: What about Agent Leonard?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: So we're still discussing this. It's not quite there yet, but I think, for the business as a whole. We said that they really want to be the best, the best in the business, the best in the industry, and the top expert in the area. So just to clarify, we're talking about residential real estate sales agents, and then in terms of the decision maker. It's essentially so. They can close close more sales and make more money?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And how they will measure it is through the number of listings, the number of sales, how they compare, and like comparison, lead tables?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: And then how do we make sure they've got the right tools? We can tie back their activity exactly to that exact social post which we'll do through the dashboard. So where?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Where they are now versus where they started, and what Myers input was towards that.
Lilliana Robinson: So kind of showing the Delta you think will prove to them that you're providing that value because you're going to track the thing that they care about. Is that what you're saying.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, that's right.
Lilliana Robinson: That's great.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: We can take one more.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, flow.
Florence Ettlin: Okay, I'll give it a go. So one of the whys is because they want to scale their portfolios without the need to hire more guest relation agents that directly impact the bottom line.
Florence Ettlin: and when we speak from the person itself, because they don't want to jeopardize the quality of the service that they provided
Florence Ettlin: at their business
Florence Ettlin: which would negatively affect their position as an operations director.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So not having to hire more people. But the revenue still going up basically is that or or the amount of customers.
Florence Ettlin: Service quality, not going down as a result of increasing the portfolio size.
Lilliana Robinson: How do they measure service quality? Do they get like a star rating.
Florence Ettlin: Reviews.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, there we go. That's really good.
Lilliana Robinson: So you can. Basically, you see how just like Agent Luner was saying, like, you might in the product want to develop something that shows them that they're like service quality is staying up
Lilliana Robinson: because of your product so that that can consistently reinforce how much value you're bringing.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's exactly it.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's just wrap here. Now, you have your theory of your W. 3, each of you.
Lilliana Robinson: It's a theory. It's not validated. It's just an assumption. How do we go test it?
Lilliana Robinson: The answer is jobs to be done. So as you guys are doing your customer discovery.
Lilliana Robinson: You're going to be able to validate every single part of your W. 3. So this is not part of the book, but what I've seen is that it maps perfectly onto your job statement. So remember the when I I want to. So that I this is the same, the when I, the who the situation, the attributes that the person is under.
Lilliana Robinson: I want to. What are they buying or hiring? What is their desire? And then why? What is their outcome or value. So that I so you guys doing your jobs to be done will help validate these W. This W. 3 blueprint that you guys have created today, and you might need to readjust it as you gain more insights. And you start talking to these people.
Lilliana Robinson: But I think these 2 go perfectly together, and not only does it give you the theory of W. 3, which is in the Lovers book, we have an actual way to go out and test it and validate it, which is really like a foolproof plan, because then you know that it's true, and then you can start making business decisions and implications on your product, on your marketing based on that, because, you know it's true.
Lilliana Robinson: So that is the end.
Lilliana Robinson: I will stick around for questions. But since we have only 2 min, you guys are good to head out if you need thanks for all your participation. This was awesome, and we'll continue to refer back to this and help you guys refine it.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? I mean.